Add oracle (#264)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/client-configuration/pages/clients-oracle.adoc

[[clients-oracle]]
= Registering {oracle} Clients

This section contains information about registering traditional and Salt clients running {oracle} operating systems.

ifeval::[{suma-content} == true]
[IMPORTANT]
====
{oracle} repository URLs are available from {scc}, but the packages and metadata are provided by Oracle, not by {suse}.
{oracle} base media repositories are freely available for download from https://yum.oracle.com/.
====
endif::[]

[IMPORTANT]
====
Traditional clients are not available on {oracle}{nbsp}8.
{oracle}{nbsp}8 clients are only supported as Salt clients.
====

== Channel and Repository Management

ifeval::[{suma-content} == true]
.Procedure: Adding Client Tools Channels
. On the {productname} Server, add the appropriate {oracle} channels:
+
* For {oracle} 6:
+
From the {webui}, add [systemitem]``Oracle Linux 6 x86_64``.
+
From the command prompt, add [systemitem]``oraclelinux6-x86_64``.

> +

Reviewer: I assume the data was provided by Kevin, for 6, 7 and 8, right?

If so, then this is fine :-)

Author: Yes, it was.

* For {oracle} 7:
+
From the {webui}, add [systemitem]``Oracle Linux 7 x86_64``.
+
From the command prompt, add [systemitem]``oraclelinux7-x86_64``.
+
* For {oracle} 8:
+
From the {webui}, add [systemitem]``Oracle Linux 8 x86_64``.
+
From the command prompt, add [systemitem]``oraclelinux8-x86_64``.
. Synchronize the {productname} Server with the {SCC}.
You can do this using the {webui}, or by running [command]``mgr-sync`` at the command prompt.
. Add the new channel to your activation key.
endif::[]

ifeval::[{uyuni-content} == true]
[IMPORTANT]
====
For {oracle} 8 clients, add both the ``BaseOS`` and ``Appstream`` channels.
You will require packages from both channels.
If you do not add both channels, you will not be able to create the bootstrap repository, due to missing packages.
====

.Procedure: Adding Client Tools Channels
. At the command prompt on the {productname} Server, as root, install the [package]``spacewalk-utils`` package:
+
----
zypper in spacewalk-utils
----
. Add the {oracle} base, updates, and client channels, specifying the {oracle} version and architecture:

> +

Reviewer: This is not enough, we should add CLI calls for 6 and 7 as well, as they don't have the same chanels ad 8.

Also keep in mind there are NO oraclelinux8-uyuni-client, just as for SUSE manager the client tools for RES are to be used, for Uyuni the CentOS client tools are to be used:

So here are the channels for each case:
```
Oracle 6: oraclelinux6 centos6-uyuni-client
Oracle 7: oraclelinux7 centos7-uyuni-client
Oracle 8: oraclelinux8 oraclelinux8-appstream centos8-uyuni-client
```

Note: I just noticed https://www.uyuni-project.org/uyuni-docs/uyuni/client-configuration/clients-centos.html#_channel_and_repository_management does NOT mention the client tools. Will send a PR to fix it now.

Author: > This is not enough, we should add CLI calls for 6 and 7 as well, as they don't have the same chanels ad 8.
> 
> Also keep in mind there are NO oraclelinux8-uyuni-client, just as for SUSE manager the client tools for RES are to be used, for Uyuni the CentOS client tools are to be used:
> 
> So here are the channels for each case:
> 
> ```
> Oracle 6: oraclelinux6 centos6-uyuni-client
> Oracle 7: oraclelinux7 centos7-uyuni-client
> Oracle 8: oraclelinux8 oraclelinux8-appstream centos8-uyuni-client
> ```
> 
> Note: I just noticed https://www.uyuni-project.org/uyuni-docs/uyuni/client-configuration/clients-centos.html#_channel_and_repository_management does NOT mention the client tools. Will send a PR to fix it now.

Done, but is that correct that it's CentOS?

Reviewer: Sorry, I am blind: `centos*-uyuni-client` is actually there ;-)

----
spacewalk-common-channels -a x86_64 oraclelinux8 \
oraclelinux8-uyuni-client oraclelinux8-appstream
----

[NOTE]
====
The client tools channel provided by [command]``spacewalk-common-channels`` is sourced from {uyuni} and not from {suse}.
====

endif::[]

There are two ways to check if a channel has finished synchronizing:

> * In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Admin[Setup Wizard] and select the [guimenu]``Products`` tab.

Reviewer: This doesn't apply to Uyuni, so you will need an if.

+
This dialog displays a completion bar for each product when they are being synchronized.
* Check the synchronization log file at the command prompt with [command]``tail -f /var/log/rhn/reposync/channel-label.log`` file.
+
Each child channel will generate its own log during the synchronization progress.
You will need to check all the base and child channel log files to be sure that the synchronization is complete.

== Create an Activation Key

You will need to create an activation key that is associated with your {oracle} channels.

For more information on activation keys, see xref:client-configuration:clients-and-activation-keys.adoc[].

== Register Clients

{oracle} clients are registered in the same way as all other clients.

> For more information, see xref:client-configuration:registration-overview.adoc[].

Reviewer: We need to add information about Oracle not trusting Uyuni packages, as we have it for CentOS: https://www.uyuni-project.org/uyuni-docs/uyuni/client-configuration/clients-centos.html#_trust_gpg_keys_on_clients

This is (or should be) on all the client pages now.

====

ifeval::[{suma-content} == true]

endif::[]

[IMPORTANT]
====
Traditional clients are not available on {oracle}{nbsp}8.
{oracle}{nbsp}8 clients are only supported as Salt clients.
====

== Server Requirements

Before you begin, check that your {productname} Server meets the requirements at xref:installation:hardware-requirements.adoc[].

Taskomatic uses one CPU core, and requires at least 3072{nbsp}MB of RAM.
To ensure that taskomatic has access to enough memory, open the [path]``/etc/rhn/rhn.conf`` configuration file, and add this line:

----
taskomatic.java.maxmemory=3072
----

Restart Taskomatic:
----
systemctl restart taskomatic
----

== Channel and Repository Management

ifeval::[{suma-content} == true]
.Procedure: Adding Client Tools Channels
. On the {productname} Server, add the appropriate {oracle} channels:
+
* For {oracle} 6:
+
From the {webui}, add [systemitem]``Oracle Linux 6 x86_64``.
+
From the command prompt, add [systemitem]``oraclelinux6-x86_64``.
+
* For {oracle} 7:
+
From the {webui}, add [systemitem]``Oracle Linux 7 x86_64``.
+
From the command prompt, add [systemitem]``oraclelinux7-x86_64``.
+
* For {oracle} 8:
+

> From the {webui}, add [systemitem]``Oracle Linux 8 x86_64``.

Reviewer: I wonder if this will also mark all the children repos automatically. This needs to be tested when Kevin has sumatoolbox ready.

Reviewer 2: It should mark all the mandatory children channels automatically. See https://github.com/uyuni-project/uyuni/pull/1941

+
From the command prompt, add [systemitem]``oraclelinux8-x86_64``.
. Synchronize the {productname} Server with the {SCC}.
You can do this using the {webui}, or by running [command]``mgr-sync`` at the command prompt.
. Add the new channel to your activation key.
endif::[]

ifeval::[{uyuni-content} == true]
[IMPORTANT]
====
For {oracle} 8 clients, add both the ``BaseOS`` and ``Appstream`` channels.
You will require packages from both channels.
If you do not add both channels, you will not be able to create the bootstrap repository, due to missing packages.

> ====

Reviewer: @paususe not really if we provide this via sumatoolbox, right?

> ====

Reviewer 3: > @paususe not really if we provide this via sumatoolbox, right?

Right. Maybe it could be rewritten like this

"
For {oracle} 8 clients, both the ``BaseOS`` and ``Appstream`` channels need to be selected, as you will require packages from both channels.
If you do not add both channels, you will not be able to create the bootstrap repository, due to missing packages.
"

.Procedure: Adding Client Tools Channels

> . At the command prompt on the {productname} Server, as root, install the [package]``spacewalk-utils`` package:

Reviewer: No, we are not.

But than can change if wanted.

Anyway this is the SUSE Manager section. Here the user should use the setup wizard, as we are preparing sumatoolbox to show this at the wizard, right?

> . At the command prompt on the {productname} Server, as root, install the [package]``spacewalk-utils`` package:

Reviewer: Sorry, wrong comment. This is the Uyuni part. Still: do we want the package installed by default at the server?

If so, I can do it on Monday. We'll need a PR to remove this from all client guides.

+
----
zypper in spacewalk-utils
----
. Add the {oracle} base, updates, and client channels, specifying the {oracle} version and architecture:
+
----
spacewalk-common-channels -a x86_64 oracle8 \

> oracle8-uyuni-client oracle8-appstream

Author: is there an uyuni client channel?

----

[NOTE]
====
The client tools channel provided by [command]``spacewalk-common-channels`` is sourced from {uyuni} and not from {suse}.
====

endif::[]

There are two ways to check if a channel has finished synchronizing:

> * In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Admin[Setup Wizard] and select the [guimenu]``SUSE Products`` tab.

Author: Done in https://github.com/uyuni-project/uyuni-docs/pull/266

+

> This dialog displays a completion bar for each product when they are being synchronized.

Reviewer 4: The completion bar in the Web UI should still work as before, it's only the completion bar from manual commandline use of `spacewalk-repo-sync` that's gone, so we should be good on this one.

> * Check the synchronization log file at the command prompt with [command]``tail -f /var/log/rhn/reposync/channel-label.log`` file.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Check the synchronization log file at the command prompt:
+
----
tail -f /var/log/rhn/reposync/channel-label.log
----
```
Additionally you probably must indicate that "channel-label" is a replaceable.  Maybe, the following sentence is good enough.

Author: This is in every client chapter, it will need to be done everywhere.

Author: Done in PR#266

This section contains information about registering traditional and Salt clients running {oracle} operating systems.

ifeval::[{suma-content} == true]
[IMPORTANT]
====

> {oracle} base media repositories and {oracle} installation media are freely available for download.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{oracle} base media repositories are freely available for download from Oracle Corporation.

{oracle} installation media are available for download from Oracle Corporation subject to certain conditions.
```
